I'd like to start off by asking you a question.
Have you ever experienced that shock, that disappointment,
of hearing that someone you love and respect has just been disfellowshipped?
And you're shocked because you think how could that have ever happened?
This person seemed such a pillar, so strong in the truth,
and yet now they're disfellowshipped.
Well, if we've experienced that, perhaps we feel a little bit like a soldier
in a battle, in the middle of a war, when the man next to him gets shot.
We see how easy it is for someone to fall aside from the truth.
But still, we are left with that question, aren't we?
How did this happen?
Well, the watchtower made a very interesting comment back in 2001,
it was in the December 1st issue.
And I'd like to read it to you, it says,
often what appears to be a sudden spiritual disaster turns out to have been the result
of a long secret history of indulgence in such spiritually damaging pursuits
as, viewing pornography, being excessively concerned with material things
or striving for prominence or power.
Yes, as the watchtower says, perhaps at times,
this is just the result of something that has gone on secretly for a long time.
So, doesn't that highlight to us the need for us to examine continually
how we're going with regard to our spirituality?
Let's have a look at a scripture together in the book of Hebrews.
It's Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 12.
And notice, please, what this tells us.
Hebrews 4.12.
For the word of God is alive and exerts power and is sharper than any two-edged sword.
And pierces even to the dividing of soul and spirit and of joints from the marrow
and is able to discern the thoughts and intentions of the heart.
Now, this is a very powerful point for us to think about that
by delving into God's Word and allowing the power of God's Word to help us.
We can see even what we really are inside.
In fact, many languages don't have specific words for soul and spirit
and oftentimes they have to translate just the many of this
and I'll translate it as pierces even to see the difference between
what we appear to be outside and what we really are inside.
Well, that captures the thought behind it, doesn't it?
We need to be concerned about not just what's happening outside,
but are we developing properly as Christians inside?
If we turn to the book of Chronicles 1 Chronicles chapter 28,
we'll notice there the words of wisdom that were conveyed to Solomon by David
in 1 Chronicles 28, verse 9.
And you, Solomon, my son, know the God of your father
and serve him with a complete heart or an undivided heart
and with a delightful soul.
Put your hover searches through all hearts
and he discerns every inclination of the thoughts.
So as in the case we mentioned at the outset,
perhaps the person that we knew and respected
from outward appearances may have been doing all the necessary things
but inwardly it was a different story.
But we need to recognize that that's something that could happen
and that's why we need to pray as the Psalmist did,
as recorded in Psalm 86 and verse 11,
that the Psalmist said, instruct me of Jehovah about your way.
I will walk in your truth, unify my heart to fear your name.
And notice the footnote there, ununify my heart,
says, give me an undivided heart.
So for each one of us being conscious of the fact that
if we're standing we could also fall,
we need to have this internal examination we could say
to make sure that spiritually speaking we are developing well.
So with that in mind, perhaps we could look
at one of the adjustments in the revised text
of the New World Transition in English
and just see what an impact this has on our conversation this morning.
So if you'd like to turn with me to the book of Romans,
chapter 12 and verse 2.
This scripture is one that we've often used many of you brothers
who give talks, representing Bethel,
have used this over and over again.
But let's read it again.
Notice and stop being molded by this system of things
but be transformed by making your mind over.
Now this expression here transformed.
I think most Bethel brothers giving talks have highlighted
that this actually refers to the word metamorphosis
and we've probably all used the illustration,
haven't we, of how a caterpillar turns into a butterfly.
And what a beautiful illustration that is to highlight
what's meant by the word transform here,
particularly with the original Greek meaning
that you change completely from one thing to another.
But let's look at a second scripture that helps us in this regard.
It's found in 2 Corinthians chapter 11.
Now if you check and see what the original New World Transition
said with regard to these verses,
you'll notice that it likewise used the same English word transform.
And rightly so because the,
although there's a different Greek word here,
both Greek words, the one in Romans 12,
and also this one in 2 Corinthians 11,
can have the meaning of being transformed.
But for clarity, we'll notice there's a change in expression here.
Second Corinthians chapter 11 and verses 13 and 14.
It says, for such men are false apostles,
deceitful workers, disguising themselves,
not transforming themselves, but disguising themselves
as apostles of Christ.
And no wonder for Satan himself keeps now no longer transforming,
disguising himself as an angel of light.
It is therefore nothing extraordinary,
or extraordinary if his ministers also keep disguising themselves
as ministers of righteousness.
But their end will be according to their works.
So for clarity, to make sure the right connotation of the word
is used here, the word was translated disguising.
And why?
But when we think of this process,
does Satan change himself into a real angel of light?
Is that a real process that's taking place?
Or does he just transform himself in the sense of disguising
or pretending to be an angel of light?
Well, that has a very serious implication for us, doesn't it?
Because as we read God's word and judge our inner motivations,
what do we need to ask ourselves?
Am I really transforming myself?
Is the power of God's word, this Holy Spirit,
really helping me to become a better person,
a different person from the one who first learned the truth?
Certainly none of us would want to put on a disguise.
In other words, just go about the normal routines
of being a Christian, going to meetings, witnessing, and so on.
But not really change inside.
So what is the key that helps us to continue to make that change?
Obviously we need the power of Holy Spirit to help us.
But let's have a look at what Proverbs tells us as a reminder.
Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 23.
There it says, above all the things that you guard,
safeguard your heart, for out of it are the sources of life.
Isn't that a very profound thought?
Of all the things we need to guard,
we really need to put a priority on guarding our hearts,
to make sure we're not half-hearted or divided,
but do we serve Jehovah with a complete heart?
Now what will help us?
Well, notice please the two verses prior to this admonition found in verse 23.
Here speaking about the sayings of Jehovah,
it says, do not lose sight of them,
keep them deep within your heart,
for they are life to those who find them
and health to their whole body.
So what's the point?
We can safeguard our heart by making sure we meditate
and ponder on the sayings of Jehovah.
Yes, we need to take time to actually think deeply
about what Jehovah is asking of us.
And when those things become pleasurable to us,
they become part of our motivations,
then we can be sure that with the help of Holy Spirit,
we will not put on a disguise,
but we will be transformed so that we can serve Jehovah with a complete heart.